# COMP9335 Wireless Mesh & Sensor Network
Project: Time Synchronisation for Activity Monitoring

An application of wireless sensor networks is to monitor the activity pattern of people. In the paper entitled Empath: a Continuous Remote Emotional Health Monitoring System for Depressive Illness, the authors use a wireless sensor network to monitor the activities of subjects with clinical depression.
It is known that depressed subjects tend to have disrupted sleep patterns. As an illustration, let us consider a depressed subject, who wakes up in the middle of the night and go for a walk about in the house and then return to his bedroom some time later on. If there is a sensor on his bed to tell whether he is on his bed, and there are sensors around the house to tell his presence in each room (or zone) in the house, then by using all these sensors, we will be able to map out the activity of this subject, e.g. the wireless sensor network can informed us that he got off the bed at 2:10am, went to room 1 and stayed there for 10 minutes, went to room 2 and stayed there for an hour, returned to the bedroom and got on his bed at 3:20am.
We can abstract this activity-monitoring problem by considering a multi-hop sensor network where each sensor node is able to detect an event. For example, leaving the bed is an event
￼
detected by a sensor node, the presence in room 1 is an event monitored by another sensor node, etc. However, in order for us to obtain the time sequence in which the events take place, we need to time synchronise the nodes.
The aim of this project is to come out with a protocol to synchronise a multi-hop wireless sensor network and to be able to correctly order and time the events taking place in the network. You will use the built-in accelerometers on the mote to determine how people are moving in an area.
Consider Figure 1 where 8 sensor nodes, labeled 1–8. If a person is moving in direction 1, then it is expected that sensors 1 and 2 will detect a change of acceleration before sensors 3 and 4. Therefore, if a change in acceleration is detected by sensors 1 and 2, followed by 3 and 4, followed and 5 and 6, and finally 7 and 8, it may be concluded that the person has moved in direction 1.
Similarly, if a person has moved in direction 2 in Figure 1, it will give rise to a different sequence of patterns. In fact, each path through the network of sensors will create a particular sequence of events. In this project, your goal will be to identify the different paths by using the events detected by the accelerometers. Time synchronisation is important because you need to find out the order of the events.
In order to test whether your synchronisation is working correctly, you will need to present different event sequences to the wireless sensor network and show that you are able to detect them. We are also interested to see how well your synchronisation protocol can deal with events happening at (nearly) the same time. We may do this by asking you to walk through the network at different paces. Note that casual walking may not be able to create a strong enough signal at the sensor nodes, if this is the case, you may need to stomp your feet.
